 Hi, Konbini. My name is Luis Fonan, and I'm going to tell you the crazy story of Duolingo.
 Hola, Konbini. Mi nombre es Luis Fonan, y les voy a decir la historia loca de Duolingo.
 We started Duolingo in 2011. I used to be a professor of computer science,
 and I had just gotten a PhD student, who is now my co-founder. His name is Severin.
 We both knew we wanted to do something related to education.
 We wanted to do something where computers would teach people.
 The best subject to start with was to start by teaching languages, and in particular, it's because of English.
 I grew up in a poor country. I grew up in Guatemala.
 A lot of people talk about the different social classes, but I always thought it was the opposite,
 as something that brings inequality, because what happens in practice is that people who have a lot of money
 can buy themselves really good educations, whereas people who don't have very much money, you know,
 don't get very good educations. So I wanted to do something that would give equal access to education to everybody.
 So we combined all of this. We decided to make an app that teaches languages for free.
 Yeah, education has just been very important. I mean, in my case, I grew up in a poor country,
 but I was fortunate that even though I was not from a rich family, I received a rich person's education,
 because I'm an only child, and my mother spent all her money on my education.
 The first language that I remember trying to learn was actually French. I failed at learning French.
 The reason I wanted to learn French was in high school. I had a crush on a girl who was taking French,
 and I took the class, but I failed at both the class and the girl. I failed.
 Yeah, when we started working on it, it took us about a year to finally launch it,
 and what we decided to do is we were going to teach three languages at the time we launched.
 We were going to teach English, we were going to teach Spanish, and German.
 And the reason for Spanish is because I speak Spanish, and the reason for German is because
 Severin's native language is German. I made the first Spanish course, and Severin made the first German course.
 And while we were developing it, we were trying to learn each other's language,
 but we actually ran into a problem before we launched, which is that we would go into the office,
 and I would ask him, did you do your Spanish lesson? And he would say, no, so boring.
 And the same thing was happening to me. Learning German was just very boring.
 And this is when we realized something that I think even to this day, you know, we think,
 which is the hardest thing about learning something by yourself or learning a language by yourself is staying motivated.
 What we started doing is we started turning Duolingo as much into a game as possible,
 so that we could motivate ourselves. And so by the time we launched, Duolingo was not only a free way to learn languages,
 but it was also a fun way to learn languages, and that's probably why we grew so much.
 Yeah, early on we had a lot of success because I was fortunate that I was invited to give a TED Talk,
 and I gave a TED Talk, and it was watched by a lot of people.
 And in the TED Talk, I said, we're about to launch this thing called Duolingo.
 It hasn't yet been launched. It's called Duolingo.
 And so because of that, by the time, on the day we launched, we already had about half a million registered users.
 It's actually changed a lot. The app has changed a lot from the beginning to where we are today.
 For one, it is a lot more gamified now than it was at the beginning.
 Also, we are a lot better at teaching. I mean, at first, the first courses were made by me.
 I mean, I didn't know how to teach languages. I was a professor, but not in languages.
 I was a professor in computer science. So over time, we started hiring linguists and people with PhDs in second language acquisition.
 And so we became a lot better at teaching languages.
 The thing to know about me is that I'm actually very bad at learning languages.
 My co-founder, Severin, is also bad at learning languages.
 And also, the first eight employees of Duolingo were all bad at learning languages.
 And I think that actually is important. We made a product not for people who are good at learning languages,
 but for the average person. You know, the average person is not good at learning languages.
 You download Duolingo and you use it for, you know, a few minutes per day, 15 minutes a day.
 It's pretty fun to use it. And as you're using it, you're learning a language.
 But you're learning by doing. You don't have to learn a language by reading a lot of grammar or anything.
 You're just learning by doing things. So it's pretty fun.
 And a lot of people who use it, particularly in the United States, we ask them,
 why are you using Duolingo? And they say, well, I used to play a lot of Candy Crush.
 That was a complete waste of time. But now I use Duolingo and it's fun.
 But also, I'm learning a little bit of Spanish or I'm learning a little bit of French.
 We've had critics throughout. I mean, from the beginning.
 And we still have critics that say that you can't really learn a language with an app, etc.
 But the reality is you can learn a language with an app.
 I mean, we have the studies that show that if you use Duolingo,
 you can learn the equivalent of five semesters of university instruction on the language.
 So you can actually learn it. But yeah, people have criticized it.
 The other thing that people have criticized is it doesn't look very serious.
 It looks like a little game. And, you know, people think that education should look serious.
 We don't think that. We think education should be fun.
 On Duolingo, the most learned language is English. About 50% of our users are learning English.
 The second most learned language is Spanish. It's a little under 20% are learning Spanish.
 And the third most learned language is French.
 Over the last few years, the fastest growing language is Korean.
 And it's because of K-pop and K-dramas.
 So every time that a new K-drama comes out, like Squid Game,
 we actually see an increase in people learning Korean.
 Whenever the Ukrainian war started, we saw the number of people learning Ukrainian
 grew by like 6x. It like multiplied by 6.
 Today on Duolingo, you can learn 42 languages.
 But that's if you learn them from English.
 If you learn them from French, you can learn about five languages.
 So we do teach some fictitious languages or, you know, they're called constructed languages.
 We teach High Valyrian from Game of Thrones.
 Duolingo is offering to give fans lessons in High Valyrian
 so they too can speak the words of the legendary dragon lords.
 Dracarys!
 You speak the language.
 We teach Klingon from Star Trek.
 And it started because our own users were asking for us to teach these languages.
 And we actually had the person who created High Valyrian.
 He worked with us to make the High Valyrian course.
 And for Klingon, it turns out there's a lot of experts.
 Klingon call Rojmohwidjh.
 And so we found them on Reddit. They are on Reddit.
 And we found them and they made the course for us.
 And, you know, one interesting thing about both of these languages,
 they are not the least learned languages that we have.
 So there are real languages that have fewer users than High Valyrian.
 For example, I'm pretty sure that Hawaiian, Navajo, I think even Irish
 has fewer users than High Valyrian and Game of Thrones.
 Yeah, as far as we know, there are six people in the Vatican that are learning Latin.
 We don't know who they are.
 We also have ten users in North Korea who are...
 Every day there are ten users from North Korea who are mostly learning English.
 Yeah, we have users in every country in the world.
 Yes, this is our mascot. It's a green owl. His name is Duo.
 He's green because we're playing a joke on our co-founder, on Severin.
 It started because when the design team was starting to draw our mascot,
 they asked for feedback from us.
 And Severin is an engineer. He's a very technical guy.
 And he didn't really care about design. He didn't want to give any feedback.
 And he just said, the only thing I care about is that I hate the color green.
 So please don't use that.
 So we all thought it would be funny to make the owl green.
 And so to this day, Severin still hates the color green.
 And he's the co-founder and CTO of a company.
 Everything is green and we do that just to play a joke on him.
 I mean, we realized very early on that the hardest thing about learning a language by yourself
 is staying motivated. That's the hardest thing.
 It's kind of similar to exercising. The hardest thing is actually exercising.
 What matters the most is that you do it.
 It's kind of similar with learning a language. What matters the most is that you do it.
 We have spent a lot of effort getting people to come back every day.
 Some of the things that we've done over the years, we added a streak.
 We have literally millions of people with a streak longer than a year,
 meaning they have not missed a day in the last year.
 So, you know, streak is very powerful.
 Another thing that has been very powerful are the notifications that we use to get people to come back.
 Not now, Duo.
 And this is why there are a lot of memes on the Internet about the owl kidnapping your family
 or the owl threatening you with a gun unless you do the lessons.
 And, you know, we didn't start those memes. The Internet started those memes.
 But we as a company lean into them. We sometimes make fun of ourselves.
 So we did an April Fool's video one time.
 Were you extorted by an enormous green owl?
 Have you been physically or emotionally injured by Duolingo?
 Yeah, Duolingo is what I'm most proud about.
 I'll tell you what I, the moment that I became very proud.
 A few years ago, I learned two things around the same time that combined made me very proud.
 First is I learned that Duolingo was being used by refugees all over Europe
 to learn the language of the country they had moved to.
 So refugees in Sweden were learning Swedish.
 Refugees in France were learning French, etc.
 The UN was using Duolingo to teach in their refugee camps.
 But around that same time, I also learned that Bill Gates was using Duolingo.
 I believe Bill Gates was for learning French.
 The combination of these two is exactly what made me very proud
 because usually, you know, refugees have no money.
 Bill Gates has, you know, $100 billion.
 And usually, billionaires have much better things than refugees.
 But this is a case where the same method of learning was being used
 by some of the poorest people in the world and some of the richest people in the world.
 So basically, more money could not get you a better education.
 And so that was the moment that I was most proud of.
